= Cloudsmith

image:1cloudsmith.jpg[1.cloudsmith.jpg]

== Sign Up

This is easiest using your GitHub account. Signing up is free and you
start a "Free Trial". You will get an email from Cloudsmith after a few
days:

`Just a friendly reminder that your trial subscription on Cloudsmith to the`
`Package (FREE) plan is due to run out 2 days, 23 hours from now.`

The paid plan is not necessary. The extra features are not required for
creating repositories for your plugin.

== Joining the Cloudsmith OpenCPN organisation

This step is optional. A membership is not required to create
repositories, but makes it possible to create them in the same area as
some other plugins. However, creating the same three repositories
without being part of the organization works just fine.

*To Join* Send an email to Rick Gleason, Jon Gough or Dave Register
requesting an invite. This will then be generated by Cloudsmith. FIXME:
email addresses needed...

Good news! You've been invited by Rick Gleason (@rick-gleason) to be a
member of the OpenCPN (@opencpn) organization at Cloudsmith.

What can members do? They can see other members and visible teams, and
inherit privileges from the org and team membership..

You'll need to login to your account to accept or reject the invite:
[[https://cloudsmith.io/user/login/|https://cloudsmith.io/user/login/]]
After you login you will automatically find the invite within the
organization invites section of your user settings:
[[https://cloudsmith.io/user/settings/orgs/invites/|https://cloudsmith.io/user/settings/orgs/invites/]]
Accept/reject the invitation:
[[https://cloudsmith.io/orgs/opencpn/people/invites/fCRGknS1o0IXDV4U/|https://cloudsmith.io/orgs/opencpn/people/invites/fCRGknS1o0IX/]]
If you accept the invitation then your user account will join the
OpenCPN (@opencpn) organization at Cloudsmith. Please note that because
this invitation was sent to Mike Rossiter (@mike-rossiter) only *_that
specific account_* will be able to accept the invitation.

*This gives member rights which allows setting up repositories on
Cloudsmith for the tarballs and metadata files built by the virtual
machines.*

*Once the invite is accepted you will see the OpenCPN organisation
details.*

image:2cloudsmith.jpg[2.cloudsmith.jpg]

*Many repositories have packages already in place.*

image:3cloudsmith.jpg[3.cloudsmith.jpg]**To
create the repositories for TideFinder click the plus sign at the right
of the
screen.**image:4cloudsmith.jpg[4.cloudsmith.jpg]

*Enter the details for the repository starting with the alpha
(experimental) repo.*

image:5cloudsmith.jpg[5.cloudsmith.jpg]

*Repeat for the beta and prod (production) repositories.*

image:6cloudsmith.jpg[6.cloudsmith.jpg]

*Three repos have been created.*

image:7cloudsmith.jpg[7.cloudsmith.jpg]

*While we are working with Cloudsmith it is useful to adjust the
lifecyle setting for the repositories. Use Admin Access to each repo.*

image:8cloudsmith.jpg[8.cloudsmith.jpg]

*The only setting needed is Retention Rules.*

image:9cloudsmith.jpg[9.cloudsmith.jpg]

*Disable the 'Limit By Days' and press the Update button.*

image:10cloudsmith.jpg[10.cloudsmith.jpg]

*Repeat for the beta and prod (production) repositories.*

*While using Cloudsmith make a note of the API Key. This can be
copy/pasted to a file on your PC for use later.*
image:11cloudsmith.jpg[11.cloudsmith.jpg]
