= Backup

Before making any changes to the master branch of your plugin make
another branch. This will act as a backup of the state of your plugin
before moving to the managed workflow.

Two Rasbats GitHub repos are involved in the managed build.

* TideFinder_pi (your plugin)
* plugins (fork of OpenCPN/plugins)

== TideFinder_pi

The changes to the plugin files have been [[shown here|CodeChange]].
These are pushed to the Rasbats GitHub repository.

== The OpenCPN/plugins fork repository

This Rasbats GitHub repo is a fork of OpenCPN/plugins:
https://github.com/opencpn/plugins[https://github.com/opencpn/plugins].

The preparations for this repository are shown
[[here|Plugins-Catalog-Github-Integration]].

== Building the plugin

*Checks*

* Have the environment variables been entered for CircleCI, Travis and
Appveyor? [[Environment Variables |
https://github.com/Rasbats/managed_plugins/wiki/Plugins-Catalog-Github-Integration#environment-variables]]

{empty}[[CircleCI|CircleCI]]

{empty}[[Drone|Drone]]

{empty}[[Appveyor|Appveyor]]

* Has a deploy key (with write permissions) been added to your
OpenCPN/plugins fork repo? [[Github deploy
key|Plugins-Catalog-Github-Integration#providing-the-link-to-your-opencpnplugins-fork]]
* Are the Cloudsmith repos ready to receive your builds?

{empty}[[Cloudsmith|Cloudsmith]]

*Building*

When the changes have been made to the plugin it is a good idea to make
an untagged build. The builds will arrive in the Cloudsmith
opencpn/tidefinder-alpha repository. The plugin can be tested for
functionality by using the *Import plugin...* button in OpenCPN.

The untagged build metadata files are not pushed to the auto branch of
your GitHub OpenCPN/plugins fork repo.

Now a tagged beta build can be made. The tag name needs to include the
word 'beta'. For example 'v1.2.5-beta' This build pushes the plugin
tarballs and metadata xml files to Cloudsmith opencpn/tidefinder-beta.
At the same time the metadata files are pushed to the auto branch of
your GitHub OpenCPN/plugins fork repo.

image:1.tidefinder.beta.repo.jpg[1.tidefinder.beta.repo.jpg]

The beta build can be tested in the same way as the experimental
untagged version. Use the *Import plugin...* button in OpenCPN.

When you want the plugin to be added to the master catalog another
tagged build is made. The tag name must not contain 'beta'. For example
'v1.2.5'. The source code for tagged builds, either beta or production
ends up in GitHub TideFinder repo tag pages. The reason for using
untagged builds initially is to avoid cluttering up this part of your
GitHub repo. Unwanted tags can be removed [[using this technique|Useful
Stuff]].

== Integrating the final builds with the OpenCPN Catalog

The steps needed for this are shown
[[here|Plugins-Catalog-Github-Integration#after-the-build]].
